## 2024-12-09 - Day One

The amount of C++ I have written in my life is limited to less than 500 lines, so I figured that I might as well start by working myself through [Advent Of Code](https://adventofcode.com), to become a little comfort with the language.

Yes, I should have started a week ago, so I'm not that much behind. But then again, I kinda need to limit myself, so I don't just whack 5 or more out in a single day. Let's limit it to 2 or 3, max!

There's this thing about the 10.000 hour rule (or 1.000.000 lines of code) that I've heard about, so I installed WakaTime as an experiment to see how much time I've actually invested in all of this. I'll do my best to include the numbers in each of these logs.

### Notes

- Getting the entire environment set up has proven itself to be difficult enough in itself, but I think I got it set up. Somewhat jankily, using clang. And raddbg to run, so I can step through code and everything.
- It took a little while to settle on the simplest possible way, printf debugging and just compiling and running the thing. Went smooth and fast, once that got out of the way.
- Had to find myself a utility function to split a string with a delimiter, found one that looks nice and works.
- ended up using `atoi()` to convert `std::string` to `int`, by forcing the `std::string` to being a `c_str` - maybe that's not how it's supposed to be done :rofl:
- `std::map` seems very nice and simple. I think the gotcha is that if you fetch the value, using the `[]` option, it inserts a zero'd value.
- No idea how debugger in VSCode works and failed to get raddbg and remedy to work properly.
- `std::sort` works nicely, but syntax is funky `std::sort(std::begin(v), std::end(v))` and it sorts _in place_.
- Finished AoC 2024-01
- Had to find myself a string.join method on google, which I didn't want to write myself _just yet_.
- 2024-02 was a nice logic test, that I managed to solve by just outlining the requirements. It felt pretty great to nail part 1 in first try.
- I had to clone a `std::vector` and learned about how simple it was to plainly just use the `copy constructor`. I also learned that it's simple to delete an element at position `i`, by just running `v.erase(v.begin()+i)`.

### Numbers

Time:
- Today: 2h14m
- Total: 2h14m

Code:
```
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Text                             4              0              0           2012
C++                              4             61              6            191
Markdown                         1              5              0             16
DOS Batch                        2              7              0             10
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                            11             73              6           2229
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```