## 2024-12-10 - Day Two

So goal for today is to do day 3 and 4 of this years advent of code, to catch up.

### Notes

- First thoughts about AoC 2024-03 part 1 is that I should do some forward scanning of the text. I haven't written an interpreter, compiler, AST or whatever it is. But I think that would be incredibly beneficial here.
- I managed to complete day 3 part 1 using a wild amount of nesting of if checks for each character, while advancing the cursor position. I fear that I need to add a new function or something wild for part 2. Turns out it didn't. It just included some additional parsing and basically just added a "do the calculation" flag, that I added as a simple bool.
- Looking at the reddit thread for other peoples solutions, it seems like the most simple solution is to just use `regex`. I guess I could've done that too.
- Learned that it's pretty simple to append char to string, just do `str += char`.
- I did at a point want a debugger attached, so I could step through the thing and see why it failed, but I ended up just doing print based debugging, or some people call that [Caveman Debugging](https://theapache64.github.io/posts/caveman-debugging-using-live-templates/). :rofl:
- Day 4 was a nice word search, where i'd have to build a 2D array and do some word-search magic on it. I initially made an off-by-one error, because of course. We all do that. :clown:
- Then I ran into the compiled binary silently failing, instead of throwing exceptions and a stacktrace. Turns out this is a C++23 feature, where some custom functionality needs to be implemented. [Someone already did](https://github.com/TylerGlaiel/Crashlogs). I'll definitely play with that.
- For Day4 part 2, we got the typical AoC humor twist. Oh, you thought I wanted this. Yeah, I need you to do _that_. I did chuckle this time around.
- I tried throwing `raddbg` after the application that didn't work and it managed to catch the crash and show me an `out of bounds` exception. Well darn, turns out it is useful afterall.


### Numbers

Time:
- Today: 2h16m
- Total: 4h42m
