## 2024-12-12 - Day Four

So goal for today is to do day 6 and 7 of AoC, but turns out that day 6 is rather tricky. 

### Notes

- So at first read, 2024-05 seemed rather difficult, but I came up with just parsing the list and making a list of rules and simply just loop through every rule and break the looping, if it violates said rule. It would just take a little while to get it implemented.
- It took me a little while to get the running through maze "just right", but it was pretty much second try for part 1. Part 2 is quite a lot more tricky. It's wildly more tricky, because I tried to be clever about it and build fake squares using two diagonal pieces and checking for the third.
- I couldn't make above idea work for part 2, so I figured I wanted to see if I could get a hint on reddit. While browsing (and before reading any solution), it dawned upon me that I should just do a brute force approach. Simply use the code from step 1 and add in a loop check. That should be stupid easy. It will be an ineffecient solution, but it'll probably work. Let's try!
- This is btw the first puzzle this year, where I'll just straight up delete almost 100 lines of code :rofl:
- I implemented the simple brute-force method and it just .. worked. It started out a bit slow, so I flipped the `-O0` flag to `-O2` and it completed within 10 seconds. Nice!
- Today was a great session and I got pretty excited about puzzles again. Excited about programming. And C++ feels great so far. I've been used to Ruby for a very long time and it's simplicity. C++ does have some quirks, like the building and not-working-out-of-the-box debugging, but that's probably because I haven't invested time into _actually_ configuring it properly yet.
- I also discovered that C++ doesn't have a simple and elengant way to do sprintf. Or string interpolation. .. I just googled `C++ string interpolation` and it turns out that it does have it. With [C++20](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/utility/format). Duh. Or with [fmt](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt). The latter seems to be used by a lot of companies, but it also is an external dependancy, so might want to avoid that. 
- I do know that _some_ people want to entirely avoid the C++ Standard Library, for some reason. How modern can I be? Can I use `C++20`? Can I use `C++23`?

### Numbers

Time:
- Today: 3h09m
- Total: 9h28m
